---
title: App
description: The App object containing Puter app details.
---

The `App` object containing Puter app details.

## Attributes

#### `uid` (String)

A string containing the unique identifier of the app. This is a unique identifier generated by Puter when the app is created.

#### `name` (String)

A string containing the name of the app.

#### `icon` (String)

A string containing the Data URL of the icon of the app. This is a base64 encoded image.

#### `description` (String)

A string containing the description of the app.

#### `title` (String)

A string containing the title of the app.

#### `maximize_on_start` (Boolean) (default: `false`)

A boolean value indicating whether the app should be maximized when it is started.

#### `index_url` (String)

A string containing the URL of the index file of the app. This is the file that will be loaded when the app is started.

#### `created_at` (String)

A string containing the date and time when the app was created. The format of the date and time is `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SSZ`.

#### `background` (Boolean) (default: `false`)

A boolean value indicating whether the app should run in the background. If this is set to `true`.

#### `filetype_associations` (Array)

An array of strings containing the file types that the app can open. Each string should be in the format `".<extension>"` or `"mime/type"`. e.g. `[".txt", "image/png"]`. For a directory association, the string should be `.directory`.

#### `open_count` (Number)

A number containing the number of times the app has been opened. If the `stats_period` option is set to a value other than `all`, this will be the number of times the app has been opened in that period.

#### `user_count` (Number)

A number containing the number of users that have access to the app. If the `stats_period` option is set to a value other than `all`, this will be the number of users that have access to the app in that period.

#### `metadata` (Object)

An object containing custom metadata for the app. This can be used to store arbitrary key-value pairs associated with the app.

## Methods

### `users()`

Iterates over all users of the apps.

__Syntax__

```js
app.users()
```

__Parameters__

None.

__Return value__

Iterable objects each containing `{username, user_uuid}`.

__Example__

```html
<html>
<body>
    <script src="https://js.puter.com/v2/"></script>
    <script>
        (async () => {
            const app = (await puter.apps.get("stampy"));
            for await (const user of app.users()) {
                console.log(user)
            }
        })();
    </script>
</body>
</html>
```

### `getUsers()`

Retrieves list of users one page at a time as defined by limit and offset.

__Syntax__

```js
app.getUsers({ limit, offset })
```

__Parameters__

- `limit` (Number) (optional): The number of users to retrieve. Default is 100.
- `offset` (Number) (optional): The offset to start retrieving users from. Default is 0.

__Return value__

An array of objects each containing `{username, user_uuid}`.

__Example__

```html
<html>
<body>
    <script src="https://js.puter.com/v2/"></script>
    <script>
        (async () => {
            const app = await puter.apps.get("your-app-name");
            const users = await app.getUsers({limit: 2, offset: 0});
            console.log(users);
        })();
    </script>
</body>
</html>
```
